# Jekyll JSON Feed plugin

A Jekyll plugin to generate an JSON feed of your Jekyll posts

## Installation

Add this line to your site's Gemfile:

```ruby
group :jekyll_plugins do
   gem "jekyll-feed-json", "~> 0.0.1", :git => "git@github.com:mryellow/jekyll-feed-json.git"
end
```

And then add this line to your site's `_config.yml`:

```yml
gems:
  - jekyll-feed-json
```

## Usage

The plugin will automatically generate a JSON feed at `/feed.json`.

### Optional configuration options

The plugin will automatically use any of the following configuration variables, if they are present in your site's `_config.yml` file.

* `title` or `name` - The title of the site, e.g., "My awesome site"
* `description` - A longer description of what your site is about, e.g., "Where I blog about Jekyll and other awesome things"
* `url` - The URL to your site, e.g., `http://example.com`. If none is provided, the plugin will try to use `site.github.url`.
* `author` - Global author information (see below)

### Already have a feed path?

Do you already have an existing feed someplace other than `/feed.json`, but are on a host like GitHub Pages that doesn't support machine-friendly redirects? If you simply swap out `jekyll-feed-json` for your existing template, your existing subscribers won't continue to get updates. Instead, you can specify a non-default path via your site's config.

```yml
feed:
  path: atom.json
```

To note, you shouldn't have to do this unless you already have a feed you're using, and you can't or wish not to redirect existing subscribers.

### Optional front matter

The plugin will use the following post metadata, automatically generated by Jekyll, which you can override via a post's YAML front matter:

* `date`
* `title`
* `excerpt`
* `id`
* `category`
* `tags`

Additionally, the plugin will use the following values, if present in a post's YAML front matter:

* `image` - URL of an image that is representative of the post (can also be passed as `image.path`)

* `author` - The author of the post, e.g., "Dr. Jekyll". If none is given, feed readers will look to the feed author as defined in `_config.yml`. Like the feed author, this can also be an object or a reference to an author in `_data/authors.yml` (see below).

## Why JSON, and not RSS?

Great question. In short, JSON is used by Javascript and we're all busy writing Javascript apps. XML means additional metadata overhead and increased parsing requirements.
